Methodological reply to reviewer 1:

a.      I find the approach to calculating tenure very strange. It is basically the number of occasions in which an individual appears in the books, rather than their actual tenure at specific point in time. The highest salary in a given year is the one that is counted. This means that the date of observation is different for different individuals and that a year of tenure can be anywhere between 1 day and 729 days. Moreover, this figure will differ across different observations. This will inevitably introduce measurement error (the extent of which will depend on the actual distribution of tenure).

We conducted a robustness analysis to examine the effects of potential (random) measurement error. This mostly affects our estimates comparing tenure effects over time. We have written this up in our footnotes and included the adjusted results in our tables. We do note that any effect of mismeasurement is small since the variance in tenure between clerks will be larger than the variance of the (unknown) measurement error.

b) When examining military leave, on p. 21 you state “Military service counted in relation to tenure and seniority at Coats when enlisted men rejoined the company”. However, on pp. 9-10 what you do when constructing the tenure variable is completely different – “When an individual left the company and later re-joined, their tenure continued from their last employment at Coats.” Why are you counting tenure in a fundamentally different way than Coats’ did at the time? This makes no sense to me.

We made a mistake and now count military service as part of tenure.

Pages 5-6. Very good information is given on employment of males clerks at Coats for the period. However no numbers are given for males as they are for females. Could this please be provided.
In addition, did Coats follow the practice of employing boy clerks at the age of 14 and then dismissing many of them at the age of 20 as was common in many offices in Britain and did this practice stop with the employment of women? This is extremely important as regards average tenure.

We have included addition information about the jobs of female clerks. In general, Coats did not hire many boys (or else recorded them in their salary books). We find that less than half of boys were dimissed or left by 21. We have noted the time trends in the hire of boys in the main article. 

c) In figures 2-4 you don’t say anything about what you did with the data to construct comparable figures for Coats and for Seltzer’s work, although on page 10 you note that the estimation methodology is different. A simple inspection of figure 2 suggests that the salaries of middling clerks at Coats’ was very similar to those of the clerical aristocracy at Williams Deacon’s Bank’s norther branches. I find this very surprising and suspect that this “result” may be an artifact of the methodology rather than a genuine finding.

We based our results on predicted average adjusted salary based on the regression models published by both sets of authors in their papers and supplementary materials. Seltzer’s averages are based on the geometric mean whilst ours and H&K are based on the arithmetic mean. Since our analysis (and H&K) actually differs from Selter’s any similarity between WDB and Coats is not going to be a results of similar methodologies. We acknowledge our inability to make all three sets of results directly comparable in the paper. 

d) On p. 6 you state “tracking the earnings of individuals…provides a fuller analysis of the relationship between earnings and job tenure than was previously possible”. First, data in previous studies (almost all of Seltzer’s work on bank clerks) was at the level of the individual, so the extent to which this is novel should be questioned. Second, to what extent is this feature of the data actually used? The regression don’t appear to contain individual fixed effects.

We acknowledge that our phrasing is misleading and have adjusted the relevant parts of the article.


e)  I don’t understand the logic in not using ln(real salary) in the regressions. Not only is this fairly standard in Mincer wage regressions, it is also directly comparable to the papers that are used as comparisons to the results here.
We chose a method comparable to H&K's paper and not Seltzers due to reasons stated in the paper that fixed tenure increases is in line with our understanding of Coats -- instead of % increases. We note also that the majority of work validating the mincerian wages equation -- which quite rightly is accurate for modern labour economics -- uses data after the second world war where there are significant relationships between human capital, experience and wages. Therefore we do not believe there is an a priori reason to default to using the mincerian equation for this period.



##	reviwer 2
n addition, it is highly inappropriate to use data from the First World War to support arguments for an overall general decline. The First World was a singular event, an aberration of extremely high inflation which as the paper quite rightly said had an adverse effect on clerical incomes, which due to their rigid nature, were unable to rapidly adjust to price rises. There is no argument that this had an extremely deleterious effect on clerical income, yet this should not be seen as reinforcing a general overall trend.

 In addition, it shows a rise in tenure adjusted salary during the inflation of the Edwardian period, especially 1905-1914, while Heller and Seltzer’s data shows a decline. If any conclusions can be drawn from this table, it is that in relation to tenure adjusted salary the existing data shows no overall trend, either for the period 1890 to 1914 or for the period 1890 to 1930. This paper would be far stronger if it focused on its own data and what this might tell us about clerical salaries in Coats, in Scotland and the wider North.

## Such a headache -- but it's more substantive rather than what I have to do.


--- recast as a piece just about coats --- send it and its fine?!?
--- tweak it--
-- number of men and women
--- time series of male and female staff
--- send email to mike and update before end of feb.